Portenta Machine Control: Hardware changes (Product Page + Datasheet) [PC-948, TC-374] (#559)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/05.pro-solutions/solutions-and-kits/portenta-machine-control/datasheet/datasheet.md

### Analog Input
The internal A/D converter of the microcontroller has a range resolution of 12-16 bits, delivering values from 0 to 65535 and being configurable by the user via software.

There are three independent analog input channels available. Each of them has an analog switch **TS12A44514PWR** which is switching between three modes:

- **0-10V**:
The input is connected to a 100kΩ and 39kΩ resistor divider: a 0-10V input is scaled down to 0-2.8V. The input impedance is approximately 28kΩ.

- **4-20mA**:
The input is connected to a 120Ω resistor. Having 4-20mA current input for a 0.48V-2.4V voltage.

- **NTC**:
The input is connected to a 3V voltage reference (**REF3330AIRSER**) with a 100kΩ resistor in series, becoming part of a resistor divider powered by the voltage reference.

An output pin provides 24V to power sensors. A 500mA PTC resettable fuse protects the 24V output pin.

### Analog Output
Four independent analog output channels are available. Each of them has a double low-pass filter and a high-current op-amp arranged in a non-inverting topology with a gain of 3.3.

![AnalogOutput](assets/MachineControlAnalogOutputScheme.svg)

> At each input of each channel, a PWM from the Portenta board is provided and filtered by a double low-pass filter, obtaining a DC output with a small AC ripple. The signal is then fed to the channel non-inverting amplifier which amplifies it by 3.3.

Author: ```suggestion
At each input of each channel, a PWM from the board is provided and filtered by a double low-pass filter, obtaining a DC output with a small AC ripple. The signal is then fed to the channel non-inverting amplifier which amplifies it by 3.3.
```

The output signal is a DC whose amplitude is a function of the PWM duty cycle.

The maximum output current is 20mA per channel.

### Temperature Measurements
Three independent temperature measurement channels are available.

Each channel can measure non-grounded thermocouples or PT100 sensors, but not both at the same time.

**NOTE**: **Do not connect both a thermocouple and a PT100 to one channel**.
Only a single channel at a time is available to be read, according to the analog switch's position.

### Front-Ends
There are two front ends on the board:
- MAX31855KASA+T dedicated to thermocouples.
- MAX31865ATP+T dedicated to PT100.

The front ends are multiplexed to the three channels via:
  - A single low-ohmic single-pole double-throw analog switch **NX3L4053HR,115** which is switching between one front end or the other.

>   - Three quadruple single pole single throw analog switches **TMUX1511RSVR** which are switching the active channel between the three available. 

Author: Align with the previous sentence
```suggestion
  - Three quadruple single-pole single-throw analog switches **TMUX1511RSVR** which are switching the active channel between the three available. 
```

### RS232/RS422/RS485
The on-board transceiver is the **TJA1049T/3J**, which can be SW configured for RS232, RS442 or RS485 half/full duplex:

  - **Nominal** data rates are: 20Mbps for the RS485 and 1Mbps for the RS232.
  - Selectable 250kbps Slew Limiting.
  - Integrated RS485 120Ω differential cable termination, inactive for RS232.
  - Integrated ESD protection.
  - A 500mA PTC resettable fuse protects the 24V output pin.

### I2C
  - Grove connector.
  - 10kΩ pull-ups on board.

### Ethernet
  - On-board transformer.
  - The 10/100 Ethernet physical interface is directly connected to the internal Ethernet MAC and provides full duplex communication with automatic *MDIX* support.
  - The *Wake-On-Lan* functionality allows the reduction of power consumption when the board is in sleep mode.

### USB-A Connector
  - Transfer rates of up to 480 Mbps.
  - It can be used both as a host and as a device.
  - ESD protection.

### Half Speed Micro-USB Portenta Half-Speed USB Is Connected To The Micro-USB Connector
  - Useful to program the Portenta board via a micro-usb cable.
  - It can be used to power the Portenta board while the 24V power supply is off.
  - ESD protection.

### RTC

> The on-board real-time clock/calendar is the **PCF8563T/F4,118** which clock is provided by a dedicated external crystal oscillator:

Author: ```suggestion
The on-board real-time clock/calendar is the **PCF8563T/F4,118** its clock is provided by a dedicated external crystal oscillator:
```

>   - A 100mF supercapacitor (**FC0V104ZFTBR24**) provides power to the **PCF8563T/F4,118** when the board power supply is disconnected. The RTC chipset will be powered by the supercapacitor for at least 48 hours.

Author: ```suggestion
  - A 100mF super-capacitor (**FC0V104ZFTBR24**) provides power to the **PCF8563T/F4,118** when the board power supply is disconnected. The super-capacitor will supply the RTC chipset for at least 48 hours.
```
